---
layout: post
title: Pringles Suck
---

I was recently in Paris and I needed to be up early for a flight. Rather than
wake up at 3am I decided to stay awake all night eating chips, drinking soda,
and watching Netflix until I needed to leave. I went to the store and found
Pringles and off-brand Fanta and my night began. I quickly realized that I hate
Pringles.

I'm going to review Pringles in a few different categories: taste, packing
efficiency, ease of access, and ease of consumption. These categories pretty
much cover my issues with Pringles and then I figured I should probably throw
taste in there too because these things are meant to be eaten.

## Taste
__Score: Not good enough__

They taste fine but all this other stuff bothers me too much for the taste to
make up for it. Moving on.


## Packing Efficiency
__Score: 81%__

A Pringles can is 9.1875 inches tall. The top chip on the stack I measured was
1.75 inches from the lid to the lowest part of the chip. In other words, there
were 7.4375 inches of chips in my Pringles can which is 81% of the height. I
measured to the lowest part of the chip to make this score as low as possible
because Pringles suck.

The lateral packing of the chips is stupid. A Pringle is a hyperbolic paraboloid
which allows them to stack on each other really well. Wow, neat. But the chips
are contained in a cylinder. A top-down view of a Pringle looks like an oval.
Great, let's put an oval in a circle.

![Pringles Shape]({{ site.url }}/assets/pringles-shape.jpg "So much room for activities.")

Now there's play left and right for the stack of Pringles in the container.
Also, only 81% of the can is filled with chips so there's vertical play too. Why
does this annoy me? Because the shape of Pringles is their gimmick and it still
allows the chips to bounce around in their hard tube and get crunched up.


## Ease of Access
__Score Before Half Finished: 2/10__

__Score After Half Finished: -10/10__

Before a can is half finished Pringles are still accessible but it gets
progressively more obnoxious to get to the next one. The can is just wide enough
to give me hope that I won't get sour cream and onion dust on my knuckles but
just skinny enough to ensure that I will. I've calculated the shittiness of
getting to each successive chip using the following formula:

![Pringles Equation]({{ site.url }}/assets/pringles-eq.png "This was peer-reviewed.")

This equation assumes that there are 100 chips in a can so there are 50 in half
of a can where _n_ is the chip's number from the top of the stack. Each chip is
worth 0.2 points to the ease of access score and then I just messed with the
equation a bit to make sure the sum is 2.

After finishing half of the can Pringles actively oppose access. In fact, the
can is so good at stopping you from getting to the chips that I gave it a -10,
which is a perfect score in the opposite direction of being easy to access. Good
job Pringles. Does any adult's hand fit in a Pringles tube? I know I've reached
the worst part of the can when the chips are so far down that I can't use my
thumb to grab them anymore. I might as well throw the rest of the can away at
that point because it's not worth the pain in my soul.

However, what if you tip the can over a bit so the chips get closer to the end
and are easier to grab? Try it and be disappointed. When you tip the can the
chips tip too and due to their shape they go flush with the side of the can.
What this means is screw you.

![Tipped Pringles Can]({{ site.url }}/assets/pringles-tipped.jpg "Pringles: "Screw you."")

But OK, maybe you can tip the can enough so the chips are essentially out of the
container; they'll still be tipped over and flush with the can but you can grab
them super easily now. Sounds like a good idea, especially if you like getting
those crumbs essentially out of the container too. Don't worry, they'll
literally be out of the container when you fumble around trying to pick the
chips up.


## Ease of Eating
__Score: Physically Harmful__

After eating two cans of Pringles in one night I realized I don't want to eat
two cans of Pringles in one night anymore. These chips destroy the edges of your
mouth. If you've ever had Sour Skittles Tongue you'll understand. Basically the
chips rub the edges of your mouth raw. It's possible to take more than one bite out of a chip though so I do that when I want to cover myself in crumbs.


### Overall Score: <i class="fa fa-bomb"></i>

I'm using Robert Christgau's rating system for the overall score. A bomb means
whatever is being rated has no value. Pringles suck.
